## Abstract: 

The objectives of the open source modelling framework SoilWater-ToolBox written in the performant Julia language (https://julialang.org/) (Fernández-Gálvez et al., 2021, 2019; Lassabatere et al., 2021; Pollacco et al., 2020, 2017, 2013) is to improve the accuracy and reduce the cost of deriving hydraulic parameters from multidisciplinary efforts. This will be achieved by (1) improving the formulation of the models derived from the principles of soil physics, (2) validating/testing the models with contrasting data sets, (3) testing the feasibility of using new cost-efficient data sets derived from additional sources, (4) making predictions by combining different methods and data types, and (5) performing comparisons of deriving hydraulic parameters from different methods/data on the water budgets by using hydrological models. Following is a list of the current applications of SoilWater-ToolBox:

Efficient simulation of water-flow processes in the vadose zone and deriving effective soil hydrodynamic parameters are crucially important. The 1D mixed form of the Richards equation is solved in the HYdrological PIXel (**HyPix**) model using the [Julia computer language](https://julialang.org/). HyPix uses a novel performant time-stepping scheme, making the Newton-Raphson linearization very efficient. We provide a complete description of the different processes modelling rainfall interception, root water uptake with compensation, soil evaporation, and ponding using a newly developed computation of sorptivity. A novel multistep optimization algorithm is proposed that inverts the hydraulic parameters from time-series soil water content measured at multiple depths. For each simulated soil layer, HyPix simulates five physical hydrodynamic parameters from the bimodal Kosugi’s model (soil retention curve and hydraulic conductivity) using a novel algorithm to reduce the degree of sensitivity of the parameters. The methodology could potentially be used to upscale the Smap-Hydro New Zealand soil hydraulic database in the future. 
